In this video what we are going to do is we are
going to build out this section right here.
So, where our code is at currently is you should
have created an icons folder with these different icons.
You should have also created a utils folder that has our contacts API file inside of it.
And then now what I've done is I have pasted in
a array of three different contacts that you should
have got from the previous text section.
So, you'll notice each contact has an ID,
a name, a handle,
as well as an avatar URL.
Now, what the goal of this video is as I mentioned,
is we want to create a brand new component which is going to take in this array as props.
It will then be responsible for looping over that array.
And then for each item in the array,
it's going to show a brand new contact.
So, what we'll do whenever we want to build out a new component,
we can build up a new file.
So, inside of our source folder here,
let's make a new file,
and we will call it ListContacts.js because
this file is going to be responsible for listing all of the contacts.
So, the very first thing we need to do is we need to grab two things.
React which is obviously the React library,
and component which is what we're going to be
extending to actually build our brand new React component.
So, both of those are going to be coming from the React package.
And then now, we can build a new component by having
a class which is going to extend component.
And now what I usually do after I create my class so I
don't forget is I come down here and export it.
So typically, whenever we create a new module or a new file here,
if we're creating a component,
that component should probably be the default export.
And so, now that we have our class or our components and we are exporting it.
The next thing we want to do is we want to describe how this component looks.
So, what we can do is we can use
the render method because that's exactly what the render method is for.
The render method describes the UI of our component.
So, what we want to return or what
the UI should look like for this component is it's going
to be an ordered list with a class name of contact list.
So, now that we have our component and then we are
exporting that as the default export from this module,
the next question we need to answer is how do we actually get
our contact's array down to our ListContacts component?
Because remember that's the whole goal of ListContacts.
This is going to take in that array,
and then for each item in the array it's going to show that was the item to the view.
Well, what we can do is we can pass in contacts as
a prop when we create the ListContacts element.
So, what we'll do first is let's go ahead and import our component here by saying,
import ListContacts from the ListContacts module that we just barely made.
Then now as I mentioned,
when we create this ListContacts element which we can do with this syntax right here,
what we can do is we can pass a contacts prop down to ListContacts,
whose value is just going to be our contacts array.
So, you could think of this as you would in normal function in location.
So, in order for you to get data to a function,
what you need to do is you need to pass that data as an argument
when you invoke the function and it's similar with components.
In order for you to get data to a component,
what you do is you pass that data in as a prop when you create the component element.
So, now we can do is inside of ListContact,
in order for us to see what data we're passing in as props,
we can come in here and console log this up props.
And then if we open up the console,
you'll notice that we have a contacts property on our props object,
which has three contacts on it.